#A tour in France & Italy, made by an English Gentleman, 1675#

##Clenche, John.##
A tour in France & Italy, made by an English Gentleman, 1675
Clenche, John.

##General Summary##

**Links**

[TCP catalogue](http://www.ota.ox.ac.uk/tcp/)  • 
[HTML](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-HTML/free/A79/A79940.html)  • 
[EPUB](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-EPUB/free/A79/A79940.epub) • 
[Page images (Historical Texts)](https://historicaltexts.jisc.ac.uk/eebo-99897039e)

**Availability**

To the extent possible under law, the Text Creation Partnership has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this keyboarded and encoded edition of the work described above, according to the terms of the CC0 1.0 Public Domain Dedication (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). This waiver does not extend to any page images or other supplementary files associated with this work, which may be protected by copyright or other license restrictions. Please go to https://www.textcreationpartnership.org/ for more information about the project.

**Major revisions**

1. __2013-05__ __TCP__ *Assigned for keying and markup*
1. __2013-05__ __Apex CoVantage__ *Keyed and coded from ProQuest page images*
1. __2013-06__ __Sarah Wingo__ *Sampled and proofread*
1. __2013-06__ __Sarah Wingo__ *Text and markup reviewed and edited*
1. __2014-03__ __pfs__ *Batch review (QC) and XML conversion*

##Content Summary##

#####Front#####
 A TOUR IN France & Italy, Made by an Engliſh Gentleman, 1675.LONDON, Printed for the Author, 167•.
1. ERRATA.

#####Body#####

1. A TOUR IN France & Italy.
DIEPPE, a Town, but indifferently Fortified, Dieppe. the Walls old, has an ancient Fort that commandROUEN, A large Timber-built Town, not much unlike ••u•n.London within the Walls, before the Fire; ThPARIS,Is a great City, yet not above half as big Paris. as London; the Building high, most of Stone,LOUURE, Has only one end, and one ſide of Louure. it finiſh'd; and when the reſt ſhall be added, wilGARDEMEUBLE, In the Old Louure, is the Gardemeuble. great Ward-robe kept, wherein are ſeveral Rich BARCH TRYUMPHAL, Of Wood, and painted; Arch Tryumphal. but the exact Model of what is intended to be GOBLINS, A Houſe built for the Kings Artificers, Goblins. ſuch as Inlayers of Cabinets, Statuaries, OBSERVATOIRE, A Building not quite finiſh'd Obſervatoire. for the Kings Chymiſts and Mathematical exINVALIDES, A ſumptuous Hoſpital not quite finiſh'd, Invalides. deſign'd for the maim'd Officers of tPLACE-ROYAL, A ſquare like Covent-GardenPlace-Royal. on Portico's, but neither the Arches nor BuildiPALAIS, A great old Building which ſerves their Palais. Parliament, their Book-ſellers and MillinersPONTNUEF Croſſes the Seine at the point of an Pontneuf. Iſland where the River divides, and thereforQUATRE NATIONS, A Church and Schooles Quatre Nations. built by Cardinal Mazarin; the Building prettyPALAIS ROYAL, Monſieurs Houſe, the building Palais Royal. low, within abundance of groſs carving andLUXEMBOURG, Both the Houſe and Garden, the Luxembourg. beſt in Paris; equalling to their bigneſs, thBASTIL, A little old ſquare Caſtle with four Baſtil. Towers, ſerving for great mens Priſon, like thePALAIS MAZARIN, Esteemed one of the first Palais Mazarin. Houſes in France; reſembles the first CourTHEATRES, Much worſe than ours, ſo are their Theatres. Plays: In their Opera's their Scenes are infiFOIRE St. GERMAIN, A large piece of ground Foire St. Germain. under an ordinary cover of poſts and tSORBONNE, The only Colledge that deſerves Sorbonne. taking notice of, Re-built by Cardinal RichelieuSt. DENYS, An old Church and Covnent, remarkable St. Denys. for its great Treaſure of Gold, Jewels, St. GERMAINS, Has a fine Scituation, but the St. Germains. Houſe out of faſhion; ſtands upon a Hill,St. CLOUD, A Houſe of Monſieurs, not large, but St. Cloud. pretty; ſtands upon a Hill, and the GardeRUEL, A Houſe ſo little, that it can only ſerve Ruel. the King to Collation in; the Gardens and WalkTRIANO, half a mile from Verſailles, stands a Triano. very fine Summer-Houſe with Walks and Statues REGALIO, At the bottom of one of the great Regalio. ſhady Walks was an Amphitheatre, made of Boughs COUNTRY, Towards Orleans has ſeveral agreeable Country. Hills, with pretty Houſes on them, and two oORLEANS Is large, ill built, ill paved, not one Orleans. good Houſe or Gentleman living in it, and yAMBOIS, A little wretched Wall'd Town, remarkable Ambois. for a Staggs horn, kill'd by Francis the FBLOIS Has nothing good in it but its Scituation. Blois.MARMOUSTIER, A large Abby, wherein is kept Marmouſtier. the St. Ampoule, that anointed Henry the FouTOURS Is not near ſo big as Orleans, though Tours. pretty large; the Houſes are moſt of them cover'dSAUMURE, A little Wall'd Town under a Hill, Saumure. cloſe by the Loire, not bigger than Windſor-CaſRICHELIEU: The famous Pallace of RichelieuRichelieu. is much leſs, and much lower Scituated than AudNANTS, Is leſs than Angers, but rather better Biult, Nants. they have an old Caſtle litile worth, whROCHEL Is leſs than Nants, has two or three Rochel. Streets built with low. Arches, under which are BLAYE, A great old Castle upon the River Giron;Blaye. the uſe of it to examine ſuch Ships as paſs toBOURDEAUX Stands upon the Garonne, a River Bourdeaux. more like Earth than Water, being near the SeaCADILLIAC, A little infignificant Wall'd Town, Cadilliac. but the Duke of Eſpernons Houſe there is nAGEN, A Wall'd Town, ſtands upon the Garonne,Agen. neither well built, large, nor otherwiſe conſiderMONTAUBAN, A little Town, pretty well built; Montauban the Market place has all the Houſes upon ArchTOULOUSE Stands on a flat, is not bigger than Toulouſe.Rouen, but esteemed the ſecond City of FranceCARCASSONNE Is in two parts, both diſtinctly Carcaſſonne. Wall'd, call'd the Citty and the Town, butNARBONNE Is the Frontier Town to Spain,Narbonne. stands low and unhealthfully, but pretty well FortiBEZIERS Has a Scituation upon a little Hill; and Beziers. the little River Orb by it, with a pretty MONTPELIER Is one of the beſt built Towns Montpelier. in France, though one of the least, all of StoFRONTIGNAN, A little ill-favour'd beggarly Frontignan. Town, yet Wall'd, remarkable for the Vines.PORTSETTE, Where the King is making a Harbor Portſette. in the Mediterranean, and has advanc'd a MolNISMES, Where there is an Amphitheatre built Niſmes. by the Emperor Trajan; the Walls the least ruinPONT du GARD, An Aquaduet made by the Pont du Gard.Romans 82. foot high, between two Hills croſs a RAVIGNON Is the Popes, bought for a ſafe Retreat Avignon. upon occaſion, is Govern'd by a Vice-LegateVIENNE, A little City ſtanding likewiſe upon the Vienne.Rhoſne, remarkable for Pilates having dwelt VALENCE, Another Wall'd City not worth notice, Valence. unleſs the breeding Lawyers can make it valuLYONS Is Scituate between two Hills, and lyes Lyons. about the belly of the biggest, in form of a haGRENOBLE Stands at the foot of a great Mountain, Grenoble. and upon the little River Iſere, beſides GRAND CHARTREUX, Scituate in the moſt Chartreux. Solitary place that can be found in the World, amonBEAUVOIS, ABBERUILE, MONTREUILLE,Beauvois, Abberuile, Montreuille, Boulonne.BOULONNE, are pretty welCALAIS Is ſtrong both to Land and Sea, has Calais. Ramparts, Ditches, Citadel, Block-Houſes, &c. andFRANCE in general Would be a very pleaſant France in general. and agreeable Country, had it EncloſurGENEVA, A little Town, ſtands in a Flat, with Geneva. Mountains at ſome distance on every ſide, beinCHAMBERY, The chief City of Savoy, is about Chambery. the ſize of Saumure, but better Built; ſtands MONTMELIAN, A little Town, by which upon Montmelian. a Rock ſtands a very ſtrong Castle that commandTURIN Stands at the foot of the Hills, on part of Turin. the ſame tract of Land with Lombardy; is laLAVENERIE, A pretty little Houſe three or four La Venerie. miles diſtant, in which the Duke delightsLA VALENTINE, A little neat Houſe of the La Valentine. Old Dutcheſſes; on the other ſide of Turin, uGENOA, One of the Stateliest Citys of Italy,Genoa. ſtands cloſe under the Barren Appennines, and waſDUOMO Is large, and has black Marble Pillars, Duomo. but not ſo fine as the former.St. DOMENICO Is long and pleaſant, its Pillars St. Domenico. and Arches black and white.St. PIETRO E PAOLO, Is plain, but well built, St. Pietro e Paolo. moſt remarkable for its Figure, beSPEDALE MAGGIORE, A great Hoſpital built Spedale Maggiore. at the publick charge (except ſome few BeSt. PIETRO del ARENA, Is a Village by the Seaſide St. Pietro del Arena. of Villas, and fine Gardens,NOVI: Their Frontier Town to the Millaneſes, is Novi. little and inconſiderable; the Country from GeTORTONA, The Frontier to the Genoueſe, like Tortona. Novi.PAVIA, A better Town than either of them; MILAN Is only to be prais'd by ſaying 'tis great, Milan. being full ten miles in compaſs; has few goSPEDALE MAGGIORE, The great Hoſpital is a Spedale Maggiore. Princely Building, ſtanding upon stone PCITTADEL Is larger than that of Antwerp, and Cittadel. is eſteemed one of the beſt in Europe, has alLodi, Piacenza, Two pretty little Towns; the firſt Lodi, Piacenza. frontier to the Venetians; in thePARMA Has a pretty River runs through it, and Parma. is eſteemed to be three miles in compaſs; the WREGIO is the Duke of Modena's Frontier and Regio. best Town, of which Prince Lewis is Governor.MODENA: In the Pallace is an Apartment of Modena. ſix Rooms, as richly gilded and furniſhed as any iBOLOGNA Stands at the end of that rich Tract Bologna. of Land, that ſcarce the World cau equal; is lFLORENCE Stands cloſe under the Appennines,Florence. and ſeems every way elſe, to have a large PlainS. MICHELE: Round about this Church are the S. Michele. Statues of St. Thomas, St. Matthew, St. GeorPISTOIA Is not now conſiderable. Piſtoia.LUCCA, Is a pretty Town near as good as Florence,Lucca. paved and built much after the ſame manner; PISA, An ancient Town, ſtands in a Marſhy place, Piſa. has a good River runs through part of it, andLEGORNE Next to Florence, the moſt conſiderable Legorne. in the G. Dukes State, is excellently fortiMONTEFIASCONE, Is remarkable for the Tomb Montefiaſcone. of the Drunken German Biſhop, who kill'd hiVITERBO, Is a pretty little Town with many Fountains Viterbo. in it; from thence (in the Summer-timeROME, As in other things, in its Scituation, excels Rome. all other Citys, having ſo many agreeable S. GIO. LATERANO, Of which the Pope is S. Gio. Laterano. Biſhop, and therefore has the Precedency ofBAPTISTERY of CONSTANTINE, Joyns Baptiſtery of Conſtantine. in a manner to this Church, wherein thatSCALA SANTA, Is a Building on purpoſe for the Holy Stairs which our Saviour went up Scala Santa. to S. PETERS, Is the ſecond Church in eſteem in Rome,St. Peters. and firſt in the World for Beauty and S. PAOLO Was Built by Conſtantine, is 120. paces S. Paolo. long, and 80. broad; the round marble PilSta. MARIA MAGIORE, Stands upon Monte Eſquilino,Sa. Maria Magiore. is the fourth Church that has HolS. LORENZO, Built by Conſtantine, has a piece of the Grate, and the entire Stone, upon which S. LautS. SEBASTIANO, One of the Seaven Churches alſo, S. Sebaſtiano. is famous for the Calacumes under it,Sta. GROCE in GIERUSALEMME Is Built likewiſe S. Croce in Gieruſalemme. by Conſtantine, in the place,MADONNA del POPOLO Has the greateſt Modonna del Popolo. priviledges, next to the aforeſaid ſeaven ChTRE FONTANE, Is a pretty Church, wherein are Tre Fontane. three Fountains made by St. Pauls Head, leS. BARTOLOMEI ſtands in the place of S. Bartolomei.Eſculapius; his Temple has the Tabernacle ſupportS. ONOFRIO: In this Church is the Tomb of S. Onofrio.Torquato Taſſo, and in the Cloister, the ChambeS. PIETRO in MONTORIO, The place where S. Pietro in Montorio. St. Peter was Crucified is a neat ChapS. MARIA in TRASTEUERE A pretty Church, S. Maria in Traſteuere. the first that was built in Rome, haS. MARIA del CARMINE: Has the E••• richly S. Maria del Carmine. gilded, the Pillars entire, of reddiS. GRISOGONO Is a pretty Church, in which S. Griſogono. lyes Robert Arch-Biſhop of York, and CardinaS. MARIA del HORTO, Has a good Front, and S. Maria del Horto. Pictures to the Altars of good hands, S. CECILLIA, Is a Church that was formerly her Houſe, and under the high Altar lyes her Effigies in S. SPIRITO, Is an Hoſpital of great Revenue, wherein S. Spirito. there is two Churches; and that of In S. GIACOMO SCOSSA CAVALLI,S. Giacomo Scoſſa Cavalli. are the Stones whereon our Saviour was plac'S. MARIA TRANSPONTINA Is a very neat S. Maria Tranſpontina. Church, and has a fine new Tabernacle: IS. ANGELO, Is a litte Church Dedicate to the Angel, S. Angelo. Pope Gregory imagin'd he ſaw ſheathinS. ATANASIO, Is a Church of very good Architecture, S. Atanaſio. with a Celledge near it for instrucS. TRINITA del MONTE, Is a handſome Church S. Trinita del Monte. and Convent of French, which has maS. CARLO in CORSO, Is a very fair Church with S. Carlo in Corſo. fine Altars, but most remarkable foS. ROCCO, Has two Hoſpitals belongs to it, one S. Rocco. for Men, another for Women; and in the ChurS. AMBROGIO, A Little Church, has alſo an Hoſpital S. Ambrogio. for the Lombards; the Picture at theS. GIRALOMO de gli SCHIAVONI, A Titular S. Giralomo. amongst the 70. to the Cardinals, is peculiar tS. LORENZO in LUCINA, Built on the Ruine of S. Lorenzo in Lucina. a Temple to Diana, has therefore tS. SILVESTRO, Has in it the miraculous picture S. Silveſtro. Chriſt made of himſelf, and ſent to theS. ANDREA del FRATE, Now repairing, formerly S. Andrea del Frate. belong'd to the Scotch Fryers.S. GIROLAMO della CARITA, Is a Church and S. Girolama della Carita. Society of Prieſts which live inS. MARIA in VIA, The Title of Cardinal Bellarmine,S. Maria in Via. repair'd by him; is one of the moS. APOSTOLI, Dedicated to the 12. Apoſtles, Built S. Apoſtoli. by Conſtantine; in it is a Marble StaS. MARIA in VIALATA, Is built on the Ruins of S. Maria in Vialata. the Tryumphal Arch of Gordian; thS. MARCELLO, In which is the Chappel of the S. Marcello. Crucifix, which being carryed in proceſſionS. MARCO, Is a little Church where that Evangeliſt S. Marco. lyes Buryed, and where he was ConſecratS. MARIA di LORETO, Is a very neat Church, built round, with a noble Cupola, adorn'd with divers S. MADONNA de'MONTI, Is the Architecture of Madonna de Monti.G••••m ••ll• Porta, built on this occaſionIL GIESU Is the Jeſuits Church, a Majeſtick Il Gieſu. Building, deſign'd by Vignola, their Sacriſty S. MARIA SOPRA MINERVA Is built upon the S. Maria Sopra Mineva. Ruins of Minerva's Temple, which wasS. IGNATIO LOIOLA Is a noble Structure adjoyning, S. Ignatio Loiola. and for the uſe of the Roman CoCOLEGIO ROMANO Is a magnificent Building, Colegio Romano. the Windows, Corniches, and Ornaments of tS. BARTOLOMEO e S. ALLESSANDRO deS. Bartolomeo e S. Alleſſandro de Bergamaſchi.BERGAMASCHI Is a littS. MARIA ROTONDA, Formerly Pantheon,S. Maria Rotonda. Dedicate to the Mother of the Gods, and all thS. MARIA MADDALENA Is a Church with a S. Maria Maddalena. neat front.GLI ORFANELLI Is a Church of the Architecture Gli Orfanelli. of Volterra, joyning to it, a Colledge S. EUSTACHIO Was Built by Conſtantine; the S. Euſtachio. S. Peter in Freſco by Perino Vaga.S. LUIGI de'FRANCESI Was built by LewisS. Luigi de Franceſi: the 9th. the Architecture of the Front S. AGOSTINO, Where there is another Picture S. Agoſtino. of our Lady, ſuppoſed to be made by St. LukS. ANTONIO de'PORTUGHESI Is a Church S. Antonio de Portugheſi. and Hoſpital peculiar to that Nation,S. APOLINARE Is a Church wherein there is moſt S. Apolinare excellent Muſick, and belonging to it, aS. GIACOMO de'SPAGNUOLI Is a Church and S. Graiomo de Spagnu. oli. Hoſpital for none but Spaniards; S. MARIA del'ANIME Is a Church and Hoſpital S Maria del Anime. for the Flemmings: In the Chappels arS. MARIA della PACE Has not only a fine front, S. Maria della Pace. but is admirably adorn'd within,CHIESA NUOVA Is a very neat Church, the Roof Chieſa Nuova. gilded and painted by Pietro di Cortona, S. MARTINO del MONTE, Is a neat Church, S. Martino del Monte. where the Pillars and Pediſtals are alSPEDALE de'VECCHI, Is ſomething like SuttonsSpedale de Vecchi. S. Gio Battiſta de Fiorentini. HoſpitS. GIO BATTISTA de'FIORENTINI. Is the Architecture of Mich. Angelo, and would have been like the RotS. BRIGIDA Is a little Church and Hoſpital for the Swedes, the Picture of our Lady, by HannibalS. BrS. TOMASO degl INGLESE Is a Church and S. Tomaſo degi Ingleſe Colledge for Education of Engliſh JeſuS. MARIA di MONSERRATO Has a good S. Maria di Monſerrato Front, an Hoſpital by it, both belonging toS. LORENZO in DAMASO Is built on the S. Lorenzo in Damaſo. Ruins of Pompeys Amphitheatre; the Roof gTRINITA di PONTE SISTO Is a Church and Trinita di Ponte Siſto. Hoſpital that entertains Pilgrims, anS. MARIA del PIANTO Is ſo called becauſe the S. Maria del Pianto. Image of our Lady on the Walls of S. CARLO de'CATENARI Is a well-built Church, S. Carlo de Catenari. the Front very fine, the paintingS. ANDREA della VALLE Is one of the fineſt S. Andrea della Valle. Churches in Rome; within, large anS. STANISLAO, Is a little Church and Hoſpital, S. Staniſlao. built by, and only for the uſe of the PS. MARIA in PORTICO Is built in the place S. Maria in Portico. of Mars his Temple, where the ancientS. ANGELO in PESCARIA, Built, and ſo called, S. Angelo in Peſcaria. upon occaſion of St. Michael theS. GIO DECOLLATO, Is a pretty little Church, S. Gio Decollato. in which there are ſeveral Pictures oS. MARIA EGITTIACA Is a little Church and S. Maria Egittiaca. Colledge for the Armenians: In it is BSCUOLA GRECA, Is an ancient Church, where Sevola Greca. they ſhow an old marble Head, called Bocca dS. MADALLENA al CORSO, I sa Church and S. Maddalena al Corſo. Monaſtery for neglected Whores; to whiS. SABINA Upon Monte Aventino, Is in the very S. Sabina. ſame place, where anciently ſtood Diana's TS. ALLESSIO, Is built on the Ruins of Hercules his S. Alleſſio. Temple, who had it Dedicate for haviS. MARIA nel AVENTINO, Is the place where anciently S. Maria nel Aventino. was the Temple of the BuoS. BALBINA, Is the Title of a Cardinal, and founded S. Balbina. by St. Mark himſelf.S. NEREO ed ACCHILLEO, Built on the Ruins of S. Nereo ed Acchilleo. the Temple of Iſide; the PictureS. SISTO, Was formerly the Temple of Mars, which S. Siſto. S. Siſto made to tumble down by a BatteryS. GIOVANNI a PORTA LATINA, A little S. Giovanni a Porta Latina. Church where St. John was boyld in ARACELI, So called from an Altar in it, Dedicate Araceli. by Auguſtus in theſe words, Ara primo geniS. GIUSEPPE de FALEGNAMI, Is a little S. Giuſeppe de Falegnami. Church, Built by the Carpenters, andS. LUCA Is Built upon the Ruins of the Temple S. Luca. of Mars, now belonging to the Painters, and wS. ADRIANO, Was formerly the Temple of Saturn,S. Adriano. and ſo ancient, that 'twas before Romulus S. COSMO e DAMIANO Is the Temple Dedicated S. Coſmo e Damiano. to Romulus; it has its braſs Doors ſtS. MARIA LIBERATRICE, Where Cicero's S. Maria Liberatriee. Houſe once stood; has in it three PillarsS. MARIA NUOVA, Has before the great Altar, S. Maria Nuova. the Tomb of Sa. Franceſca Romana, of rarS. SEBASTIANO Is a little Church with divers S. Sebaſtiano. Pictures in it, and the place where St. S. TEODORO Is a little round Church Dedicated S. Teodoro. to Romulus and Renuis, being the very placS. MARIA delle GRATIE, Was formerly the Temple S. Maria delle Gratie of Veſta, Built round, with CorS. MARIA della CONSOLATIONE, Built on occaſion S. Maria della Conſolatione. of the Virgins Image, onS. ANASTASIA, Is a Church with a handſome S. Anaſtaſia. Front, built in the place where was once a TS. GREGORIO in MONTE CELIO, Abounds S. Gregorio in Monte Celio. with Pardons for the Dead, and beſidS. GIOVANNI e PAOLO, Were the two Eunuchs of S. Giovanni e Paolo.Conſtanza, the Daughter of ConſtantS. STEPHANO ROTONDA, Is built on the Ruins S. Stephano Roconda. of the Temple, of the Emperor ClaudeS. EUSEBIO Is a little Church, built upon the S. Euſebio. Ruins of the Emperor Gordians Pallace.S. ANTONIO Is a very pretty Church; to the Fathers S. Antonio. of which, is committed the Spiritual S. PRASSEDE: In a Chappel of this Church is S. Praſſede. to be ſeen a piece of the Pillar, at which S. VITALE Is Built on the Ruins of the Temple S. Vitale. of Quirino, who here appeared to Proculus.S. LORENZO in PANISPERNA, Stands where S. Lorenzo in Paniſperna. St. Laurence was put upon the Grid-SAPIENZA Is a well-built Colledge for publick Sapienza. Lectures; the Architecture of Giacomo della PROPAGANDO FIDE Is a Colledge of noble Propagando Fide. Building for Eaſtern Students of Catholick DS. PUDENTIANA, The Daughter to a RomanS. Pudentiana. Senator, Converted by St. Peter, in whoſe HouſeS. BERNARDO Is a great round Tower belonging S. Bernardo. to the Therme of Diocleſian, now made a ChS. SUSANNA Is a very neat Church and Front; S. Suſanna. the History is painted by Baldaſſere da BoloS. MARIA della VITTORIA, Is ſo called for the S. Maria della Vittoria. Battle of Prague: The ChappelS. COSTANZA was the Temple of Bacchus, which S. Coſtanza. is entire ſtill, and ſerves for a Church wPALAZZO VATICANO Stands cloſe to St. Peters,Palazzo Vaticano. on the ſide of an agreeable Hill, and PALAZZO FARNESE, Has before it a fine Palazzo Farneſe. Piazza with noble Fountains; was deſign'd by PALAZZO BURGHESI, Is the Architecture of Palazzo Burgheſi.Martino Lunghi; has 19. Rooms on a Floor, MONTE CAVALLO, Is the Popes Reſidence; Monte Cavallo. has an open large Piazza before it, whereon ſtPAZZORELLA Is the Houſe where Lunaticks and Pazzorella. Fools are kept, moſt of the Mad-men in it, bPALAZZO del S. UFFICIO, Is the Pallace of Palazzo del S. Ufficio. the Inquiſition, where there are dPALAZZO PALESTRINO, One of the finest Palazzo Paleſtrino. in Rome, is built on the ſide of a Hill, hPALAZZO PANFILLIO Is in the great PiazzaPalazzo Panfillio.Navona, in the mid'st of which, ſtands thaPALAZZO PANFILLIO, In the Carſo, a Street Palazzo Panfillio. almost the length of Rome, wherein the PALAZZO COLONNA Is a great Pallace richly Palazzo Colonna. furniſh'd: In his Garden, on the ſide of PALAZZO ORSINI Is a great Pallace built on Palazzo Orſini. the Ruins of Pompey's Theatre.PALAZZO di PALAZZO SISTO 5o;. Is the Architecture of Palazzo Siſto 5.Giacomo Fontana, not now Inhabited.PALAZZO GHIGI Is in the Longara, wherein is Palazzo Ghigi. the Banquet of the Gods, by Raphael, the PALAZZO di RAPHAEL was Raphael Urbins own Palazzo di Raphael. Habitation, a very pretty Pallace.PALAZZO di CAFFARELLI, Is a very noble Palazzo di Caffarelli. Pallace, built by Raphael Urbin alſo.PALAZZO de i RE d'INGHILTERRA Is a Palazzo de i Re d'Inghilterra. ueat Pallace, formerly belonging tCASA PIGHINI Is the houſe where thoſe admirable Caſa Pighini. Statues are of Meleager and a Venus, fPALAZZO del GRAN DUCA Is a fine Pallace Palazzo del Gran Duca. of the Great Dukes, Built not above 3PALAZZO GAETANI, Is a large and noble Palazzo Gaetani. Pallace; the Architecture of Bartolomeo AmanaPALAZZO della CANCELLERIA Is a very Palazzo della Cancelleria. great Pallace, Built of the Stones fePALAZZO MUTI Is a little Pallace with Statues Palazzo Muti. on the top of it, poſſest by the Heirs oPALAZZO GIUSTINIANO Is the Architecture Palazzo Giuſtiniano of Gio Fontana, A Pallace well ſtor'd wiPALAZZO ALTIERI Is of the preſent Popes Palazzo Altieri. Family, now Building a mighty addition to iPALAZZO ALTEMPS, In which are divers Statues Palazzo Altemps. and Pictures, one of the laſt, by RaphPALAZZO FALCONIERI Is the Architecture Palazzo Falconieri. of Borromine: Within, it has divers StatuPALAZZO LANCELLOTTI, Has a good Palazzo Lancellotti. Collection of Statues and Pictures: The ArchitePALAZZO RIARI Is Inhabited by the Queen of Palazzo Riari.Sweden, in which are ſeveral noble Rooms, aPALAZZO SAVELLI Is Built on the Ruins of Palazzo Savelli. the Theatre of Marcellus and Semcircular lPALAZZO ALDOBRANDINI, Has ſeveral Palazzo Aldobrandine. excellent Statues and Pictures; and in the GPALAZZO MAZZARINI, Has before it a very Palazzo Mazzarini. ſpacious Court, and in the Garden the PicPALAZZO SALVIATI Is the Architecture of Palazzo Salviati.Lippi, Built on purpoſe to Lodge a King of VILLA del G. DUCA Is the great Duke's Pallace Villa del G. Duca. on Monte Trinita; from whence it haVILLA BURGHESI Has the approaches to it by fine Walks, through a delicate little Park, full of tall VILLA PANFILLIA Stands high, has an excellent Villa Panfillia. Proſpect, Gardens, Grotta's, Statues,VILLA MATEI: Has fine Gardens, VVater-works Villa Matei and Proſpect; in the Pallace and Summer-HouſVILLA LUDOVISA Has a Scituation as fine as Villa Ludoviſa. the others, great Gardens, noble ſhady WaVILLA MONTALTA Has a Garden not inferior Villa Montalta. to any in Rome, has excellent walks, admiraVILLA FARNESE: Is a Garden on part of MonteVilla Farneſe.Palatino, wherein there are pleaſant Walks,PUBLIQUE FOUNTAINES Are thoſe two noble Publique Fountains. ones in Piazza Vaticana, by Caure. MaderAntoninus his Baths, a Ruin wherein there are four Therme Antoninus Caracalla. places large as WeſtmFRESCATI Is a pleaſant little Town, about 12. Freſcati. miles from Rome, Scituate upon the ſide of aTIVOLI Stands yet higher than Freſcati, and a Tivoli. little further from Rome, but has the ProſpectVELETRI Is a little pretty Town; in it is the Veletri. Statue of Urban the 8th. and the Pallace and TARACINA Has nothing now remarkable but the Taracina. Ruins of an old Temple.FUNDI Is the firſt Town in the Kingdom of Naples,Fundi. and having been ſince the time of the RomansMOLA Is a little Town by the Sea ſide, where Mola.Cicero had a Villa, and his ſeveral Grotta's, withGAETA Is a little Town and Caſtle on a Promontary Gaeta. that ſtands in the Sea, joynd to main Land,CAPUA Is a little inſignificant Town, and two Capua. miles diſtant now from the place where that greNAPLES Has one end next the Mediterranean,Naples. like a Creſcent, as Genoa's middle ſtands, and theVeſuvius is about nine miles from Naples, but by Monte Veſuvio. its great heighth, appears very nearANCONA Stands upon the Gulph; towards Ancona. Land is defended by a Caſtle, and has a ſhort Mole intFERRARA Stands on a flat, by the noble River Ferrara.Po; has a Cittadel and excellent Walls, with waVENICE, The Free-born State which neither Athens,Venice.Sparta, nor Rome could boaſt, ſtands in the Denmark and Sweden are ſo remote, that they are Denmark & Sweden. inſignificant to them, but their gPADOUA Stands on the River Brent; on the Banks Padoua. of which, all the way to it, are Villas of thSa. Giuſtina is plain, but Majestick; the Architecture Sa. Giuſtina much esteem'd, being built by PaVICENZA Is a very pleaſant Town, in a delicious Vicenza. Country, ſtands upon two Rivers, and near aVERONA Is very large, stands high, in a good Verona Air, and pleaſantly; is generally well Built, fuBRESCIA Is pleaſant, has Walls and Ramparts, Breſcia. is indifferently well built, not ſo well, nor CREMA Is a pretty little Town, and well Fortified, Crema and Bergamo. but worſe than Breſcia in all LODINUOVA: The Spaniſh Frontier to the VenetiansLodi Nuova. ſtands upon riſing ground, has a River rMANTOUA has • ſecure, but baſe Scituation, Mantoua. being inviron'd with Marſhes, and a Lake, ſo thaMIRANDOLA is another Principality, whoſe little Mirandola. Monarch, with all ſorts of Taxes and ImpoNOVARA Is a Town not well Built, but well Fortified; Novara. is very populous, and the Frontier to PVERCELLI, The Duke of Savoys Frontier Town Vercelli. to the Spaniards has on one ſide a little RiverITALY in GENERAL, except the Appennines, (which is a fourth part of it) is a perfect Garden; the Ita
**Types of content**

  * There are 12 **verse** lines!
  * Oh, Mr. Jourdain, there is **prose** in there!

There are 33 **omitted** fragments! 
 @__reason__ (33) : illegible (33)  •  @__resp__ (33) : #MURP (33)  •  @__extent__ (33) : 1 letter (20), 2 letters (8), 3 letters (3), 4 letters (1), 1 span (1)

**Character listing**


|Text|string(s)|codepoint(s)|
|---|---|---|
|Latin-1 Supplement|è° |232 176 160|
|Latin Extended-A|ſ|383|
|Latin Extended-B|Ʋ|434|
|General Punctuation|•—…|8226 8212 8230|
|Geometric Shapes|▪|9642|
|CJKSymbolsandPunctuation|〈〉|12296 12297|

##Tag Usage Summary##

###Header Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__author__|2||
|2.|__availability__|1||
|3.|__biblFull__|1||
|4.|__change__|5||
|5.|__date__|8| @__when__ (1) : 2014-11 (1)|
|6.|__edition__|1||
|7.|__editionStmt__|1||
|8.|__editorialDecl__|1||
|9.|__encodingDesc__|1||
|10.|__extent__|2||
|11.|__fileDesc__|1||
|12.|__idno__|6| @__type__ (6) : DLPS (1), STC (2), EEBO-CITATION (1), PROQUEST (1), VID (1)|
|13.|__keywords__|1| @__scheme__ (1) : http://authorities.loc.gov/ (1)|
|14.|__label__|5||
|15.|__langUsage__|1||
|16.|__language__|1| @__ident__ (1) : eng (1)|
|17.|__listPrefixDef__|1||
|18.|__note__|7||
|19.|__notesStmt__|2||
|20.|__p__|11||
|21.|__prefixDef__|2| @__ident__ (2) : tcp (1), char (1)  •  @__matchPattern__ (2) : ([0-9\-]+):([0-9IVX]+) (1), (.+) (1)  •  @__replacementPattern__ (2) : http://eebo.chadwyck.com/downloadtiff?vid=$1&page=$2 (1), https://raw.githubusercontent.com/textcreationpartnership/Texts/master/tcpchars.xml#$1 (1)|
|22.|__profileDesc__|1||
|23.|__projectDesc__|1||
|24.|__pubPlace__|2||
|25.|__publicationStmt__|2||
|26.|__publisher__|2||
|27.|__ref__|1| @__target__ (1) : http://www.textcreationpartnership.org/docs/. (1)|
|28.|__revisionDesc__|1||
|29.|__seriesStmt__|1||
|30.|__sourceDesc__|1||
|31.|__term__|2||
|32.|__textClass__|1||
|33.|__title__|3||
|34.|__titleStmt__|2||


###Text Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__body__|1||
|2.|__cell__|244| @__role__ (10) : label (8), total (2)|
|3.|__desc__|33||
|4.|__div__|268| @__type__ (268) : title_page (1), errata (1), text (1), place (265)  •  @__n__ (265) : Dieppe (1), Rouen (1), PARIS (1), LOUURE (1), GARDEMEUBLE (1), ARCH TRYUMPHAL (1), GOBLINS (1), OBSERVATOIRE (1), INVALIDES (1), PLACE-ROYAL (1), PALAIS (1), PONTNUEF (1), QUATRE NATIONS (1), PALAIS ROYAL (1), LUXEMBOURG (1), BASTIL (1), PALAIS MAZARIN (1), THEATRES (1), FOIRE St. GERMAIN (1), SORBONNE (1), St. DENYS (1), St. GERMAINS (1), St. CLOUD (1), RUEL (1), TRIANO (1), REGALIO (1), COUNTRY (1), ORLEANS (1), AMBOIS (1), BLOIS (1), MARMOUSTIER (1), TOURS (1), SAUMURE (1), RICHELIEU (1), NANTS (1), ROCHEL (1), BLAYE (1), BOURDEAUX (1), CADILLIAC (1), AGEN (1), MONTAUBAN (1), TOULOUSE (1), CARCASSONNE (1), NARBONNE (1), BEZIERS (1), MONTPELIER (1), FRONTIGNAN (1), PORTSETTE (1), NISMES (1), PONT du GARD (1), AVIGNON (1), VIENNE, (1), VALENCE (1), LYONS (1), GRENOBLE (1), GRAND CHARTREUX (1), BEAUVOIS, ABBERUILE, MONTREUILLE (1), CALAIS (1), FRANCE in general (1), GENEVA (1), CHAMBERY (1), MONTMELIAN (1), TURIN (1), LAVENERIE (1), LA VALENTINE (1), GENOA (1), DUOMO (1), St. DOMENICO (1), St. PIETRO E PAOLO (1), SPEDALE MAGGIORE (2), St. PIETRO del ARENA (1), NOVI (1), TORTONA (1), MILAN (1), CITTADEL (1), Lodi, Piacenza (1), PARMA (1), REGIO (1), MODENA (1), BOLOGNA (1), FLORENCE (1), S. MICHELE (1), PISTOIA (1), LUCCA (1), PISA (1), LEGORNE (1), MONTEFIASCONE (1), VITERBO (1), ROME (1), S. GIO. LATERANO (1), BAPTISTERY of CONSTANTINE (1), SCALA SANTA (1), S. PETERS (1), S. PAOLO (1), Sta. MARIA MAGIORE (1), S. LORENZO (1), S. SEBASTIANO (2), Sta. GROCE (1), MADONNA del POPOLO (1), TRE FONTANE (1), S. BARTOLOMEI (1), S. ONOFRIO (1), S. PIETRO (1), S. MARIA in TRASTEUERE (1), S. MARIA del CARMINE: (1), S. GRISOGONO (1), S. MARIA del HORTO (1), S. CECILLIA (1), S. SPIRITO (1), S. GIACOMO SCOSSA CAVALLI (1), S. MARIA TRANSPONTINA (1), S. ANGELO (1), S. ATANASIO (1), S. TRINITA del MONTE (1), S. CARLO in CORSO (1), S. ROCCO (1), S. AMBROGIO (1), S. GIRALOMO de gli SCHIAVONI (1), S. LORENZO in LUCINA (1), S. SILVESTRO (1), S. ANDREA del FRATE (1), S. GIROLAMO della CARITA (1), S. MARIA in VIA (1), S. APOSTOLI (1), S. MARIA in VIALATA (1), S. MARCELLO (1), S. MARCO (1), S. MARIA di LORETO (1), MADONNA de'MONTI (1), IL GIESU (1), S. MARIA SOPRA MINERVA (1), S. IGNATIO LOIOLA (1), COLEGIO ROMANO (1), S. BARTOLOMEO e S. ALLESSANDRO de (1), S. MARIA ROTONDA (1), S. MARIA MADDALENA (1), GLI ORFANELLI (1), S. EUSTACHIO (1), S. LUIGI de'FRANCESI (1), S. AGOSTINO (1), S. ANTONIO de'PORTUGHESI (1), S. APOLINARE (1), S. GIACOMO de'SPAGNUOLI (1), S. MARIA del'ANIME (1), S. MARIA della PACE (1), CHIESA NUOVA (1), S. MARTINO del MONTE (1), SPEDALE de'VECCHI (1), S. GIO BATTISTA de'FIORENTINI. (1), S. BRIGIDA (1), S. TOMASO degl INGLESE (1), S. MARIA di MONSERRATO (1), S. LORENZO in DAMASO (1), TRINITA di PONTE SISTO (1), S. MARIA del PIANTO (1), S. CARLO de'CATENARI (1), S. ANDREA della VALLE (1), S. STANISLAO (1), S. MARIA in PORTICO (1), S. ANGELO in PESCARIA (1), S. GIO DECOLLATO (1), S. MARIA EGITTIACA (1), SCUOLA GRECA (1), S. MADALLENA al CORSO (1), S. SABINA (1), S. ALLESSIO (1), S. MARIA nel AVENTINO (1), S. BALBINA (1), S. NEREO ed ACCHILLEO (1), S. SISTO (1), S. GIOVANNI a PORTA LATINA (1), ARACELI (1), S. GIUSEPPE de FALEGNAMI (1), S. LUCA (1), S. ADRIANO (1), S. COSMO e DAMIANO (1), S. MARIA LIBERATRICE (1), S. MARIA NUOVA (1), S. TEODORO (1), S. MARIA delle GRATIE (1), S. MARIA della CONSOLATIONE (1), S. ANASTASIA (1), S. GREGORIO in MONTE CELIO (1), S. GIOVANNI e PAOLO (1), S. STEPHANO ROTONDA (1), S. EUSEBIO (1), S. ANTONIO (1), S. PRASSEDE: (1), S. VITALE (1), S. LORENZO in PANISPERNA (1), SAPIENZA (1), PROPAGANDO FIDE (1), S. PUDENTIANA (1), S. BERNARDO (1), S. SUSANNA (1), S. MARIA della VITTORIA (1), S. COSTANZA (1), PALAZZO VATICANO (1), PALAZZO FARNESE (1), PALAZZO BURGHESI (1), MONTE CAVALLO (1), PAZZORELLA (1), PALAZZO del S. UFFICIO (1), PALAZZO PALESTRINO (1), PALAZZO PANFILLIO (2), PALAZZO COLONNA (1), PALAZZO ORSINI (1), PALAZZO SISTO (1), PALAZZO GHIGI (1), PALAZZO di RAPHAEL (1), PALAZZO di CAFFARELLI (1), PALAZZO de i RE d'INGHILTERRA (1), CASA PIGHINI (1), PALAZZO del GRAN DUCA (1), PALAZZO GAETANI (1), PALAZZO della CANCELLERIA (1), PALAZZO MUTI (1), PALAZZO GIUSTINIANO (1), PALAZZO ALTIERI (1), PALAZZO ALTEMPS (1), PALAZZO FALCONIERI (1), PALAZZO LANCELLOTTI (1), PALAZZO RIARI (1), PALAZZO SAVELLI (1), PALAZZO ALDOBRANDINI (1), PALAZZO MAZZARINI (1), PALAZZO SALVIATI (1), VILLA del G. DUCA (1), VILLA BURGHESI (1), VILLA PANFILLIA (1), VILLA MATEI (1), VILLA LUDOVISA (1), VILLA MONTALTA (1), VILLA FARNESE (1), PUBLIQUE FOUNTAINES (1), Antoninus (1), FRESCATI (1), TIVOLI (1), VELETRI (1), TARACINA (1), FUNDI (1), MOLA (1), GAETA (1), CAPUA (1), NAPLES (1), Veſuvius (1), ANCONA (1), FERRARA (1), VENICE (1), Denmark (1), PADOUA (1), Sa. Giuſtina (1), VICENZA (1), VERONA (1), BRESCIA (1), CREMA (1), LODINUOVA (1), MANTOUA (1), MIRANDOLA (1), NOVARA (1), VERCELLI (1), ITALY in GENERAL (1)|
|5.|__front__|1||
|6.|__g__|789| @__ref__ (789) : char:V (1), char:EOLhyphen (784), char:punc (3), char:EOLunhyphen (1)|
|7.|__gap__|33| @__reason__ (33) : illegible (33)  •  @__resp__ (33) : #MURP (33)  •  @__extent__ (33) : 1 letter (20), 2 letters (8), 3 letters (3), 4 letters (1), 1 span (1)|
|8.|__head__|4||
|9.|__hi__|2092| @__rend__ (35) : sup (35)|
|10.|__l__|12||
|11.|__lg__|1||
|12.|__note__|510| @__place__ (510) : margin (510)|
|13.|__p__|571| @__n__ (2) : 2 (2)|
|14.|__pb__|126| @__facs__ (126) : tcp:137057:1 (2), tcp:137057:2 (2), tcp:137057:3 (2), tcp:137057:4 (2), tcp:137057:5 (2), tcp:137057:6 (2), tcp:137057:7 (2), tcp:137057:8 (2), tcp:137057:9 (2), tcp:137057:10 (2), tcp:137057:11 (2), tcp:137057:12 (2), tcp:137057:13 (2), tcp:137057:14 (2), tcp:137057:15 (2), tcp:137057:16 (2), tcp:137057:17 (2), tcp:137057:18 (2), tcp:137057:19 (2), tcp:137057:20 (2), tcp:137057:21 (2), tcp:137057:22 (2), tcp:137057:23 (2), tcp:137057:24 (2), tcp:137057:25 (2), tcp:137057:26 (2), tcp:137057:27 (2), tcp:137057:28 (2), tcp:137057:29 (2), tcp:137057:30 (2), tcp:137057:31 (2), tcp:137057:32 (2), tcp:137057:33 (2), tcp:137057:34 (2), tcp:137057:35 (2), tcp:137057:36 (2), tcp:137057:37 (2), tcp:137057:38 (2), tcp:137057:39 (2), tcp:137057:40 (2), tcp:137057:41 (2), tcp:137057:42 (2), tcp:137057:43 (2), tcp:137057:44 (2), tcp:137057:45 (2), tcp:137057:46 (2), tcp:137057:47 (2), tcp:137057:48 (2), tcp:137057:49 (2), tcp:137057:50 (2), tcp:137057:51 (2), tcp:137057:52 (2), tcp:137057:53 (2), tcp:137057:54 (2), tcp:137057:55 (2), tcp:137057:56 (2), tcp:137057:57 (2), tcp:137057:58 (2), tcp:137057:59 (2), tcp:137057:60 (2), tcp:137057:61 (2), tcp:137057:62 (2), tcp:137057:63 (2)  •  @__rendition__ (1) : simple:additions (1)  •  @__n__ (121) : 1 (1), 4 (1), 5 (1), 6 (1), 7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1), 10 (1), 11 (1), 12 (1), 13 (1), 14 (1), 15 (1), 16 (1), 17 (1), 18 (1), 19 (1), 20 (1), 21 (1), 22 (1), 23 (1), 24 (1), 25 (1), 26 (1), 27 (1), 28 (1), 29 (1), 30 (1), 31 (1), 32 (1), 33 (1), 34 (1), 35 (1), 36 (1), 37 (1), 38 (1), 39 (1), 40 (1), 41 (1), 42 (1), 43 (1), 44 (1), 45 (1), 46 (1), 47 (1), 48 (1), 49 (1), 50 (1), 51 (1), 52 (1), 53 (1), 54 (1), 55 (1), 56 (1), 57 (1), 58 (1), 59 (1), 60 (1), 61 (1), 62 (1), 63 (1), 64 (1), 65 (1), 66 (1), 67 (1), 68 (1), 69 (1), 70 (1), 71 (1), 72 (1), 73 (1), 74 (1), 75 (1), 76 (1), 77 (1), 78 (1), 79 (1), 80 (1), 81 (1), 82 (1), 83 (1), 84 (1), 85 (1), 86 (1), 87 (1), 88 (1), 89 (1), 90 (1), 91 (1), 92 (1), 93 (1), 94 (1), 95 (1), 96 (1), 97 (1), 98 (1), 99 (1), 100 (1), 101 (1), 102 (1), 103 (1), 104 (1), 105 (1), 106 (1), 107 (1), 108 (1), 109 (1), 110 (1), 111 (1), 112 (1), 113 (1), 114 (1), 115 (1), 116 (1), 117 (1), 118 (1), 119 (1), 120 (1), 121 (1), 122 (1), 123 (1)|
|15.|__q__|4||
|16.|__row__|97||
|17.|__seg__|1| @__rend__ (1) : decorInit (1)|
|18.|__table__|5||
|19.|__trailer__|1||
